DA-140: add mouse mover tutorial (#927)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/get-started/servo-mousemover.md

---
title: "Single Component Tutorial: How to Create a Mouse Mover Using a Servo"
linkTitle: "Create a Mouse Mover"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Use the Python SDK to move a continuous servo to keep a computer screen from sleeping."
webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.mp4"
videoAlt: "A mouse mover controlled with a servo and Raspberry Pi."
tags: ["servo", "single component tutorial", "raspberry pi", "sdk", "python"]
# SME: Kacey Meier-Smith
---

Have you or someone you've known been a person that works from home and needed to step out for a moment?
Maybe it was to clear your head, grab your lunch, answer the door, and you get in trouble because it showed you as offline?

> <div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
> <iframe width="984" height="554" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sXWJE0ePHdA" title="Mouse Mover Teaser" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<youtube embed_url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sXWJE0ePHdA">}}
```

- microSD card reader
- [Continuous rotation servo](https://a.co/d/2w0u6rK) (we used the FS90R servo)
- Wheel or arm for servo (this comes in some of the FS90R packages)
- [Jumper wires](https://www.amazon.com/EDGELEC-Breadboard-Optional-Assorted-Multicolored/dp/B07GD2BWPY)
- Optical mouse - corded or uncorded

### Tools and Consumables

- Suitable sized box (box should allow servo with wheel/arm with circle cut out on top of wheel/arm to sit flush with the top of the box)
- Double sided tape
- Tape to seal the box (we used black gaffers tape)
- Box cutters
- Marker

### Software

- [Python3](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/)
- [Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/#)
- [viam-server](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/tree/0c550c246739b87b4d5a9e8d96d2b6fdb3948e2b)
- [Viam Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/)
- [Mousemover tutorial code](https://github.com/viam-labs/tutorial-mousemover)

## Install Viam software

First, install viam-server according to our [Raspberry Pi setup guide](/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/)

Next, run this command in your Raspberry Pi terminal to install the pip package manager. Select "yes" when it asks if you want to continue.

> `sudo apt-get install pip`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
sudo apt-get install pip
```
```

The command above installs the latest version of `python3` and `pip3` on your Raspberry Pi.
To verify and get the version of the package, you can run the command:

> `pip3 --version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
pip3 --version
```
```

The [Viam Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/) (Software Development Kit) allows you to write programs in the Python programming language to operate robots using Viam. To get the Python SDK working on the Raspberry Pi, run the following command in your Raspberry Pi terminal:

> `pip install viam-sdk`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
pip install viam-sdk
```
```

![A screenshot of the word Language with four boxes below it with Python, Golang, Typescript (Web), and Remotes in each one. Python has a black background with white text and a checkmark, the other three have white backgrounds with black text.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/choose-python.png)

Since we already installed the Python SDK, we can skip the first step. Copy the code in from step 2.

![A screenshot of the Viam app showing the CODE SAMPLE tab. On this tab it has Language: with four boxes, Python is black background with white text and has a checkmark indicating it is selected, then there's Golang, Typescript (Web), and Remotes with white backgrounds and black text. The page next says Python SDK (Documentation) with a link to Documentation. Below that there\'s a place that says "pip install viam-SDK" this is how you install the Viam Python SDK. Below that instruction is the instructions to "Then copy and run the following code to connect to your robot:" with 7 lines of code seen (the screenshot is incomplete).](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/code-sample-page.png)

> The copied the code needs to go in a Python file on the Raspberry Pi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The copied code needs to go in a Python file on the Raspberry Pi.
```

> You can do so by creating a file directly inside the Raspberry Pi and editing the file with nano.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do so by creating a file on the Raspberry Pi and editing the file with nano.
```

Inside the Raspberry Pi Terminal, run the following command to create a folder to put our files in (name this folder whatever you want).

> `mkdir mousefolder`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
mkdir mousefolder
```
```

Go into mousefolder.

> `cd mousefolder`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
cd mousefolder
```
```

Create a file using nano with the .py which is the python file extension, (name this file whatever you want).

> `nano anyname.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
nano anyname.py
```
```

Paste the code you got from the **CODE SAMPLE** tab in the Viam app. Press CTRL+O, then CTRL+M, then CTRL+X to save the code and exit.

![Raspberry pi computer terminal with black background and mostly white, but there's some green, teal, purple and red parts of the text. At the top it says GNU nano 5.4 anyname.py. Inside the terminal it shows the connect code from the previous example, but this time it's in the terminal. At the bottom it shows the settings for this nano program.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/sample-code.png)

Now, run the code using the below command to get the resource information that lets us know if the connection is good or if there are any errors.

> `python3 anyname.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
python3 anyname.py
```
```

---
title: "Single Component Tutorial: How to Create a Mouse Mover Using a Servo"
linkTitle: "Create a Mouse Mover"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Use the Python SDK to move a continuous servo to keep a computer screen from sleeping."
webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.mp4"
videoAlt: "A mouse mover controlled with a servo and Raspberry Pi."
tags: ["servo", "single component tutorial", "raspberry pi", "sdk", "python"]
# SME: Kacey Meier-Smith
---

Have you ever been working from home and needed to step out for a moment?
Maybe it was to clear your head, grab your lunch, answer the door, and you get in trouble because it showed you as offline?

{{<youtube embed_url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sXWJE0ePHdA">}}

This tutorial will show you how to build a mouse mover using Viam, a Raspberry Pi, a servo, and an optical mouse.
This robot will turn the continuous servo that's secured inside the box, which will turn the circle under the optical mouse. This will keep your computer from falling asleep.

> This project is a good place to begin if you're new to robots and would like to learn how to use a [servo component](/components/servo/) with the Viam app and Viam's [Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/).

Author: ```suggestion
This project is a good place to begin if you're new to robotics and would like to learn how to use a [servo component](/components/servo/) with the Viam app and Viam's [Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/).
```

```sh
mkdir mousefolder
```

Go into mousefolder.

```sh
cd mousefolder
```

Create a file using nano with the .py which is the python file extension, (name this file whatever you want).

```sh
nano anyname.py
```

Paste the code you got from the **CODE SAMPLE** tab in the Viam app. Press CTRL+O, then CTRL+M, then CTRL+X to save the code and exit.

![Raspberry Pi terminal showing the connect code from the previous example.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/sample-code.png)

Now, run the code using the below command to get the resource information that lets us know if the connection is good or if there are any errors.

```sh
python3 anyname.py
```

![The output of the code showing a list of the resources.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/resources-printed.png)

There are no errors in the resources above, so we have confirmed a good software connection between the Python SDK and your Viam robot!

## Connect the Servo

First, **turn off your Raspberry Pi**.
This will help prevent any accidents when connecting the hardware.

> Now, follow this schematic to attach jumper wires to the servo and Raspberry Pi.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, follow this schematic diagram to attach jumper wires to the servo and Raspberry Pi.
```

---
title: "Single Component Tutorial: How to Create a Mouse Mover Using a Servo"
linkTitle: "Create a Mouse Mover"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Use the Python SDK to move a continuous servo to keep a computer screen from sleeping."
webmSrc: "/tutorials/img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.webm"
mp4Src: "/tutorials/img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.mp4"
videoAlt: "A mouse mover controlled with a servo and Raspberry Pi."
tags: ["servo", "single component tutorial", "raspberry pi", "sdk", "python"]
# SME: Kacey Meier-Smith
---

> Have you or someone you've known been a person that works from home and needed to step out for a moment?

Author: ```suggestion
Have you ever been working from home and needed to step out for a moment?
```

Maybe it was to clear your head, grab your lunch, answer the door, and you get in trouble because it showed you as offline?

{{<youtube embed_url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sXWJE0ePHdA">}}

This tutorial will show you how to build a mouse mover using Viam, a Raspberry Pi, a servo, and an optical mouse.
This robot will turn the continuous servo that's secured inside the box, which will turn the circle under the optical mouse. This will keep your computer from falling asleep.

This project is a good place to begin if you're new to robots and would like to learn how to use a [servo component](/components/servo/) with the Viam app and Viam's [Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/).

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/moving.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/moving.mp4" alt="Video of a mouse running erratically on the screen in a sweeping motion in front of the Viam app Control page with an overlaid video of a mouse on top of a cardboard box with a moving cardboard circle underneath it with red swirl lines on the circle.">}}
</div>

## Requirements

### Hardware

> - [Raspberry Pi with microSD card](https://a.co/d/bxEdcAT), with viam-server installed per our [Raspberry Pi setup guide](/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/)

Reviewer 2: raspberry pi setup guide does not install viam-server, just imager

> - [Raspberry Pi with microSD card](https://a.co/d/bxEdcAT), with viam-server installed per our [Raspberry Pi setup guide](/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Raspberry Pi with microSD card](https://a.co/d/bxEdcAT), with viam-server installed per our [installation guide](/installation/)
```

- microSD card reader
- [Continuous rotation servo](https://a.co/d/2w0u6rK) (we used the FS90R servo)

> - Wheel or arm for servo (this comes in some of the FS90R packages)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wheel or arm for the servo (this comes in some of the FS90R packages)
```

- [Jumper wires](https://www.amazon.com/EDGELEC-Breadboard-Optional-Assorted-Multicolored/dp/B07GD2BWPY)
- Optical mouse - corded or uncorded

### Tools and Consumables

- Suitable sized box (box should allow servo with wheel/arm with circle cut out on top of wheel/arm to sit flush with the top of the box)
- Double sided tape
- Tape to seal the box (we used black gaffers tape)
- Box cutters
- Marker

### Software

- [Python3](https://www.python.org/download/releases/3.0/)
- [Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/#)
- [viam-server](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/tree/0c550c246739b87b4d5a9e8d96d2b6fdb3948e2b)
- [Viam Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/)
- [Mousemover tutorial code](https://github.com/viam-labs/tutorial-mousemover)

## Install Viam software

> First, install viam-server according to our [Raspberry Pi setup guide](/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/)

Author: ```suggestion
First, install viam-server according to our [installation guide](/installation/)
```

> First, install viam-server according to our [Raspberry Pi setup guide](/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/)

Reviewer 2: this step doesn't install server, just imager

Reviewer 2: https://docs.viam.com/installation/install/linux-install/

```sh
sudo apt-get install pip
```

The command above installs the latest version of `python3` and `pip3` on your Raspberry Pi.
To verify and get the version of the package, you can run the command:

```sh
pip3 --version
```

The [Viam Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/) (Software Development Kit) allows you to write programs in the Python programming language to operate robots using Viam. To get the Python SDK working on the Raspberry Pi, run the following command in your Raspberry Pi terminal:

```sh
pip install viam-sdk
```

## Test the SDK with your robot

On the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), select the **CODE SAMPLE** tab, then confirm that **Python** is set as the default language.

![A screenshot of the word Language with four boxes below it with Python, Golang, Typescript (Web), and Remotes in each one. Python has a black background with white text and a checkmark, the other three have white backgrounds with black text.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/choose-python.png)

Since we already installed the Python SDK, we can skip the first step. Copy the code in from step 2.

> ![A screenshot of the Viam app showing the CODE SAMPLE tab. On this tab it has Language: with four boxes, Python is black background with white text and has a checkmark indicating it is selected, then there's Golang, Typescript (Web), and Remotes with white backgrounds and black text. The page next says Python SDK (Documentation) with a link to Documentation. Below that there\'s a place that says "pip install viam-SDK" this is how you install the Viam Python SDK. Below that instruction is the instructions to "Then copy and run the following code to connect to your robot:" with 7 lines of code seen (the screenshot is incomplete).](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/code-sample-page.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![A screenshot of the Viam app showing the CODE SAMPLE tab. On this tab it has Language: with four boxes, Python is a black background with white text and has a checkmark indicating it is selected, then there's Golang, Typescript (Web), and Remotes with white backgrounds and black text. The page next says Python SDK (Documentation) with a link to Documentation. Below that there's a place that says "pip install viam-SDK" this is how you install the Viam Python SDK. Below that instruction are the instructions to "Then copy and run the following code to connect to your robot:" with 7 lines of code seen (the screenshot is incomplete).](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/code-sample-page.png)
```

```sh
nano anyname.py
```

Paste the code you got from the **CODE SAMPLE** tab in the Viam app. Press CTRL+O, then CTRL+M, then CTRL+X to save the code and exit.

![Raspberry pi terminal showing the connect code from the previous example.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/sample-code.png)

Now, run the code using the below command to get the resource information that lets us know if the connection is good or if there are any errors.

```sh
python3 anyname.py
```

![The output of the code showing a list of the resources.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/resources-printed.png)

There are no errors in the resources above, so we have confirmed a good software connection between the Python SDK and your Viam robot!

## Connect the Servo

First, **turn off your Raspberry Pi**.
This will help prevent any accidents when connecting the hardware.

Now, follow this schematic to attach jumper wires to the servo and Raspberry Pi.

- **GND** on servo attached to pin 6 on Pi
- **5V** on servo attached to pin 2 on Pi
- **PWM** on servo attached to pin 12 on Pi

> ![Computer drawn photo schematic of a raspberry pi connected to a FS90R servo. It shows the yellow wire coming from the servo as the PWM wire and it's attached to pin twelve on the raspberry pi. The red wire coming from the servo is five volt wire and it's attached to pin two. The black wire coming from the servo is the ground wire and it's attached to pin eight.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/servo-wiring-diagram.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Computer-drawn photo schematic of a Raspberry Pi connected to a FS90R servo. It shows the yellow wire coming from the servo as the PWM wire and it's attached to pin twelve on the raspberry pi. The red wire coming from the servo is a five-volt wire and it's attached to pin two. The black wire coming from the servo is the ground wire and it's attached to pin eight.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/servo-wiring-diagram.png)
```

</div>

## Control the servo in Viam app

If everything went well, the servo started to move.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/its-alive.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/its-alive.mp4" alt="Small square .gif of black and white frankenstein clip with man with brown hair in lab coat frantically looking around and yelling while text that says \"IT'S ALIVE! IT'S ALIVE!\" is on screen. There's a very tall man with something on his head on a table behind him and another man sitting on a chair behind the table." max-width="400px">}}
</div>

Navigate to the **CONTROL** tab and press the **STOP** button on the servo card (matching what you named the servo) to stop the servo.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/stop.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/stop.mp4" alt="Red square button with the word STOP on it with an animation of a finger mouse pointer clicking it." max-width="150px">}}
</div>

Click on the top of the servo card to open the servo controls.

> **Angle** will determine what speed your servo goes and in what direction.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this just for angle and not speed? i think there is speed/direction outside of angle

Author: not for continuous servos

90 degrees is the midway point and is the stopping point.
Try changing the angle to a few different settings.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">

>   {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/angle-100.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/angle-100.mp4" alt="A gif at the top of the CONTROL tab in the viam app. The pointer finger is pressing the 10 button and it changes the angle from 90 to 100 repeatedly. The red STOP button is in the upper right corner. There is a blue circular arrow depicting the servos direction as being counterclockwise. Below this is a gif of the raspberry pi to the left and the FS90R servo on the right. The servo stops, then spins counterclockwise repeatedly.">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/angle-100.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/angle-100.mp4" alt="A gif at the top of the CONTROL tab in the Viam app. The pointer finger is pressing the 10 button and it changes the angle from 90 to 100 repeatedly. The red STOP button is in the upper right corner. There is a blue circular arrow depicting the servo's direction as being counterclockwise. Below this is a gif of the Raspberry Pi to the left and the FS90R servo on the right. The servo stops, then spins counterclockwise repeatedly.">}}
```

</div>

### Cut a holes in the box for the Pi

Place the Raspberry Pi back in the box and mark where the USB-C plug is so that you know where it is on the outside of the box.
Take out the Raspberry Pi.
Grab a box cutter and cut out a power hole.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/pi-hole.mp4" alt="This is a sped up gif of cutting a hole for the raspberry pi. First the person puts the raspberry pi inside to mark where the power holes are, then a mark is made on the lateral side of the box, then they pull out the raspberry pi and use boxcutters to cut a hole.">}}
</div>

Since the Raspberry Pi will be in a box and won't have much ventilation, cutting a courtesy hole to allow for it to vent is the least we could do to keep it from frying.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">

>   {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/vent-box.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/vent-box.mp4" alt="This is sped up gif showing cutting the heat hole for the raspberry pi. First they put the raspberry pi inside and identify where they need to cut on the bottom of the box, they then pull the raspberry pi out. Then they use box cutters to cut a one inch by two inch hole.">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/vent-box.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/vent-box.mp4" alt="This is sped up gif showing cutting the heat hole for the Raspberry Pi. First, they put the Raspberry Pi inside and identify where they need to cut on the bottom of the box, they then pull the Raspberry Pi out. Then they use box cutters to cut a one-inch by two-inch hole.">}}
```

The technique we used to find the center of the circle was to mark the screw on the servo.
Gently push on the box to get a mark on the inside of the box, then create a cut we could see from the other side.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/cut-box.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/cut-box.mp4" alt="This is sped up gif showing using a marker and marking the screw of the servo, then shutting the box quick and getting the marker on the lid, then opening it back up. Then using that mark to make a cut with a box cutter, and on the other side of the lid which is the outside, marking that cut hole and putting a large roll of tape down to draw a circle. Finally, cutting the circle out with box cutters.">}}
</div>

### Tape the box shut, add "babygates", and plug in the Raspberry Pi

When taping the box shut be sure the servo with the circle cut out sits fairly flush to the top of the box.
Add "babygates" or rails to keep the mouse from wandering off if it catches some friction.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">

>   {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/finish-box.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/finish-box.mp4" alt="This is sped up gif showing a person plugging in the power cable to the raspberry pi through the power hole made earlier, then pushing the rocker switch to turn it on. When the raspberry pi is turned on, the circle turns for a millisecond. Then they draw a swirl design on the circle. Then they make the circle spin and put a mouse on it and it falls off immediately. The next thing they do is they put cardboard on two sides of the box and at the end they place the mouse on top.">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/finish-box.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/finish-box.mp4" alt="This is sped up gif showing a person plugging in the power cable to the raspberry pi through the power hole made earlier, then pushing the rocker switch to turn it on. When the Raspberry Pi is turned on, the circle turns for a millisecond. Then they draw a swirl design on the circle. Then they make the circle spin and put a mouse on it and it falls off immediately. The next thing they do is they put cardboard on two sides of the box and at the end, they place the mouse on top.">}}
```

</div>

### Control your robot with code

Copy the code from the [mousemover Github repository](https://github.com/viam-labs/tutorial-mousemover) into your nano file, save it, and run it.

The code uses the Python SDK to securely connect to your robot through Viam app.
Then, it enters a for loop in which **position** tells us the servo **myServo** to move to positions (angle, or speed/direction) between 80 and 93 degrees as specified in the **sequence** list.
The code uses **pause_time** to wait for a random amount of time between 5 and 20 seconds to stay at that position.

You can adjust the range (or speed/direction) by changing the two numbers in the position statement. (Currently set at 80 and 93).
You can also change the time that the servo is allowed to spin in any direction by changing the two numbers in the pause_time statement.
Experiment and have fun.

## Next steps

> If you want more, head over to our documentation site and take a look at our [tutorials](/tutorials/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to build more robots, head over to our documentation site and take a look at our [tutorials](/tutorials/).
```

> If you liked this tutorial and want to do more tutorials like these, then keep checking back for more single component tutorials.

Author: ```suggestion
```

And if you didn't like this tutorial and would like to speak to my manager, their name is <img src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/censor.jpg" style="width:50px;" alt="Fuzzy box meant to censor text."></img>.

> (Update: apparently that's a big no no.)

Reviewer 3: looool

Maybe it was to clear your head, grab your lunch, answer the door, and you get in trouble because it showed you as offline?

{{<youtube embed_url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sXWJE0ePHdA">}}

This tutorial will show you how to build a mouse mover using Viam, a Raspberry Pi, a servo, and an optical mouse.
This robot will turn the continuous servo that's secured inside the box, which will turn the circle under the optical mouse. This will keep your computer from falling asleep.

This project is a good place to begin if you're new to robots and would like to learn how to use a [servo component](/components/servo/) with the Viam app and Viam's [Python SDK](https://python.viam.dev/).

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/moving.webm" mp4_src="../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/moving.mp4" alt="Video of a mouse running erratically on the screen in a sweeping motion in front of the Viam app Control page with an overlaid video of a mouse on top of a cardboard box with a moving cardboard circle underneath it with red swirl lines on the circle.">}}
</div>

> 
> {{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}
> NOTE: This tutorial is part of Viam's Single Component Tutorial series, where you have the opportunity to learn how to use single components for low cost with Viam's platform in fun mini-tutorials.
> 
> Stay tuned for more tutorials like this one and don't forget to [join our Discord](https://discord.gg/viam) if you have any questions in the meantime!
> {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: Please remove this for now. This isn't a series yet - and it's confusing for people to see this touted as a series. I understand it is meant to become one. Once it is you can add this here but for now it shouldn't be here.

```suggestion
```

The copied code needs to go in a Python file on the Raspberry Pi.
You can do so by creating a file on the Raspberry Pi and editing the file with nano.

Inside the Raspberry Pi Terminal, run the following command to create a folder to put our files in (name this folder whatever you want).

```sh
mkdir mousefolder
```

Go into mousefolder.

```sh
cd mousefolder
```

Create a file using nano with the .py which is the python file extension, (name this file whatever you want).

```sh
nano anyname.py
```

Paste the code you got from the **CODE SAMPLE** tab in the Viam app. Press CTRL+O, then CTRL+M, then CTRL+X to save the code and exit.

> ![Raspberry pi computer terminal with black background and mostly white, but there's some green, teal, purple and red parts of the text. At the top it says GNU nano 5.4 anyname.py. Inside the terminal it shows the connect code from the previous example, but this time it's in the terminal. At the bottom it shows the settings for this nano program.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/sample-code.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Raspberry pi terminal showing the connect code from the previous example.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/sample-code.png)
```

Now, run the code using the below command to get the resource information that lets us know if the connection is good or if there are any errors.

```sh
python3 anyname.py
```

> ![Raspberry pi computer terminal with black background and mostly white, but there's one teal word: "INFO" located at the top next to viam.rpc.dial (dial.py:209). The code shown below that is white text and shows Viam's RDK Resources, and it shows no error.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/resources-printed.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The output of the code showing a list of the resources.](../../img/single-component-tutorials-servo-mousemover/resources-printed.png)
```
